>> Jen Kramer: All right, so we've talked
a lot about properties and values.
I'm going to scroll back to
the top of my CSS document here,
frontendmasters@github.io/bootcamp.
Go to the CSS page.
And I wanted to talk just a little bit,
again,
about some of this terminologies and
ways to include CSS in your document.
Some quick little things you're gonna need
to know to complete your exercises today.
So we've done a lot and talked about
the terminology in terms of properties and
values.
We talked about a declaration, okay?
So that would be like font-weight,
bold, font-family, sans-serif.
Those are a single property value pair,
that's a declaration.
And then a series of a whole bunch
of declarations together is called
the Declaration Block, okay?
You want to know all
the fancy terminology.
This is helpful when you're
looking something up and
they start throwing around words like
this and you don't know what they are.
[LAUGH] You refer back to this.
That's where all those
words are coming from.
Okay, second thing I wanna talk about,
ways to include CSS in your document.
We only put CSS in our document one way so
far, we did the first thing,
which is with the external stylesheet.
Okay, so we created a separate document,
which we've made it up for CSS.
We linked it to our HTML,
we stuffed in full of styles, right?
Good stuff.
But there's other ways we can
put styles in as well, and
you may have seen some of these out there,
depending on what you've been doing.
So we also have what's called
an internal or embedded stylesheet.
And so this is something that occurs
in the head of your document, okay?
And there's also this inline style,
so we'll go ahead and
we'll try both of these
out here in just a second.
But I wanted to point out to you,
which should you use?
99.999% of the time the external
stylesheet is the correct solution, okay?
It's one you'll see all the pros using.
But on occasion,
these things will come in handy as well.
It's helpful to know that they exist.
Make sense?
Okay, so why is the external
stylesheet preferred by professionals?
Can anyone take a guess?
Yeah?
>> off screen: They have a lot
of Web pages to deal with
>> Jen Kramer: If we have
lots of Web pages, right?
We have hundreds of pages on our website,
how many stylesheets do we need?
>> off screen: A lot.
>> Jen Kramer: One, one stylesheet.
We data one stylesheet and
we link it up to our 100 pages and
it's a beautiful thing.
Okay, if I'm putting my styles in the head
of my document in my 100 page website,
and I need to change something,
how many times do I need to change things?
>> off screen: 100.
>> Jen Kramer: 100 times, once for each
page that is a pain in the neck, okay?
But it gets worse.
What if I was doing an inline style?
Say coloring my paragraphs
on all those pages.
How many times now, when the boss said
I don't want purple paragraphs anymore,
I want green ones.
How many changes do I have to make now?
A bijillion, right?
All 100 pages, all individual times that
we talked about these inline styles.
So for maintenance purposes,
it's way better to be using
the external stylesheet.
Make sense?
But it's helpful to know that there's
other ways to include styles in your
document because you'll see them used
especially in documentation online.
In fact, you see them used here in
this very documentation
that you're reading, okay?
So let's go ahead and just try them out so
that you know what they are.
So when you encounter them,
they don't scare you, right?
So to make an embedded or
an internal stylesheet, in your HTML
scrolling up to the head of your document.
And just before your slash head tag and
again anywhere in in the head is fine.
This is where I'm putting mine,
we'll put in a style tag.
So that's a style tag.
And this is where we can put in
whatever style we want to do.
But we can say all paragraphs
will now be something.
Color blue, okay?
And you can list up here
as many styles as you want.
Just it's just like regular old CSS.
Once you put that style tag in place
in the head of the document you
can put as many styles
in here as you want.
So when you refresh your Web page,
>> Jen Kramer: There we go,
we have lots of blue paragraphs.
Everything is blue, everything is blue.
Okay, the other thing you might have
noticed is I blew up all of my other
colors for my paragraphs.
With this one style, okay?
Notice how this style to that declaration
comes later than my actual stylesheet,
doesn't it?
So what does that mean?
What styles win?
If I have a paragraph over here in
my external stylesheet that's red,
says I'll make all paragraphs red.
In fact, I'll just put it in,
p color red, okay?
So over here in my external stylesheet,
it says make the paragraphs red.
And over here in my embedded stylesheet,
it says make them blue,
which one is gonna win?
And how many say we have red paragraphs?
How many say we have blue paragraphs?
Good job, everybody.
The blue paragraphs win, okay?
Because this is later in
your document once again.
>> Jen Kramer: Sweet.
Okay, so
that's how you would do an embedded style,
and then let's do an inline style as well.
So-
>> off screen: Sorry,
can I ask real quick?
If you move that embedded
style above the reference
to the CSS stylesheet,
then is it reversed?
>> Jen Kramer: Great question.
>> Jen Kramer: Actually,
before we go there, let's test this.
And make sure that we, in fact, did win.
So I have red in the external,
blue in the internal or
embedded stylesheet, we decided that
blue paragraphs were gonna win.
And when we refresh the Web page, sure
enough blue paragraphs win, okay, cool.
So now we're gonna do
exactly what Dave suggests.
We're gonna take our style or
embedded stylesheet here and
we're gonna put it before our
external stylesheet, okay?
So we still have our red style over
here on the external stylesheet.
We have our blue over here
on the embedded stylesheet.
Now which ones gonna win?
How many say all paragraphs are red?
How many say all the paragraphs are blue,
still blue.
That was a lot of people not voting, okay.
Which is later in the document?
>> off screen: The external sheet.
>> Jen Kramer: The external stylesheet
is later in the document, right?
So these styles are going to win.
>> off screen: One of my classes
stayed right even when I had
the the paragraph color
below the stylesheet.
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah.
>> off screen: It was only one of
them now from that style.
>> Jen Kramer: If we have a style,
in a class like that,
it's gonna take priority over
just a plain old HTML tag.
It's getting into the cascade, and
we can go deep, we'll trying not to.
[LAUGH] Yes,
classes will be regular old HTML elements.
Last thing,
let me show you how to do an inline style.
So since we're coloring paragraphs here,
we still have our red here
in the external stylesheet.
We have our blue here and
the internal stylesheet.
Here, this first paragraph,
let's go ahead and
say p style = color:purple.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so an inline style
goes right inside of the HTML tag.
You can line up as many
styles here as you want.
Font weight, bold, right?
>> Jen Kramer: So we can just line
up one style after the other.
Right inside of the style attribute.
That style attribute can be
applied to any of the HTML tags.
So once you've got that in place,
what color are our paragraphs now?
What color is this first paragraph now?
We have it red in the external stylesheet,
blue in the embedded stylesheet and
purple in this one paragraph.
So what color is this one
paragraph going to be?
How many say red?
It's totally red.
Good, how many say it's blue?
It's totally blue.
How many say it's purple?
It's totally purple.
Awesome, yes, it's purple.
So and why is it purple?
>> off screen: Comes last
>> Jen Kramer: It comes last in document
once again.
It's the last thing in the document.
>> Jen Kramer: So we refresh,
there's my purple paragraph right there.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay and
once again if you write code like this.
If you're writing, your paragraph is
red here and blue here and purple here,
you're a terrible programmer.
Don't do this, okay.
For explanation only.
As you can tell,
it gets very confusing trying to figure
out how things are supposed to be when you
junk it up with lots of stuff
that doesn't need to be here.